# Uyseok Lee Personal Website

## Requirements (for Mac, in order)
- Homebrew (for Terminal)
  - to install Homebrew, type in terminal: `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"`
- Node.js
  - to install, type in terminal: `brew install node`
 
## Making changes to the website 
To make changes to the website,

1. Clone repository to desktop.
2. Make changes to files and commit + push changes to the repo.
- Before you make the changes, if you want to see what the website will look like, do the steps below to view changes locally.
3. Once the changes have been pushed, open new terminal window on mac and set working directory to the github repo.
- type in terminal `cd /Users/uyseoklee/Documents/GitHub/uyseoklee.github.io`
4. Install npm by typing this into the terminal: `npm install`
- You can also install run dev by typing `npm run dev` into the terminal if you want to see what the changes look like (rendered locally).
5. Install github pages package by typing this into the terminal: `npm install gh-pages --save-dev`
6. Finally type the following lines into the terminal to "deploy" the app (i.e. render the website online): `npm run build`, `npm run deploy`
- When you type in `npm run deploy`, you may be prompted for your github username (uyseoklee) and a password. The password needs to be a personal access token which can be generated by doing the following: click on profile picture in top right corner of github site; click on settings; click on developer settings on the left hand side tabs; click on personal access tokens; click on tokens (classic); click generate token; copy the token; paste it into the terminal.
  

## Viewing changes locally
To play around with changes before commiting to Github, 

1. Clone repository and copy-paste the entire repo to a separate location locally.
2. Open terminal, and set working directory to the new location
- type in terminal `cd path/to/new/location`
3. Install npm by typing `npm install` into the terminal.
4. Start the application locally by typing `npm run dev` in the terminal.
- This shows you what the website looks like locally
- Type `o + enter` in terminal to see the website in a browser.
- As you make changes to the files, the website will update locally.
